Docs: add astro quickstart (#44488)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/astrojs.mdx

---
title: 'Use Supabase with Astro'

> subtitle: 'Learn how to create a Supabase project, add some sample data, and query from an Astro app.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: 'Learn how to create a Supabase project, add sample data, and query from an Astro app.'
```

breadcrumb: 'Framework Quickstarts'

> hideToc: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hideToc: true
```

> hideToc: false

Reviewer 2: Ah, sorry, I saw the comment above now, hmm, maybe this is a separate issue.

> hideToc: true

Reviewer: I would set this to false. 

I am not seeing a ToC and it's cutting code snippets too aggressively.

<img width="520" height="696" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf7e2303-8655-423e-9757-2c6e9111083c" />

Author: Done

---

<StepHikeCompact>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={1}>

    <$Partial path="quickstart_db_setup.mdx" />

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={2}>

    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Create an Astro app">

    - Create an Astro app using the `npm create` command.

    <$Partial path="uiLibCta.mdx" />

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```bash name=Terminal
      npm create astro@latest my-app
      cd my-app
      ```

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={3}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Install Supabase client library and Node adapter">

    Install the `supabase-js` client library and the `@astrojs/node` adapter to enable server-side rendering.

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```bash name=Terminal
      npm install @supabase/supabase-js @astrojs/node
      ```

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={4}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Configure Astro for SSR">

>     Update your `astro.config.mjs` to enable server-side rendering with the Node adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Update your `astro.config.mjs`.
```

This was mentioned above, so it gets a bit repetitive.

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      <$CodeTabs>

        ```text name=.env.local
        SUPABASE_URL=<SUBSTITUTE_SUPABASE_URL>
        SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=<SUBSTITUTE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>
        ```

      </$CodeTabs>

      <$Partial path="api_settings_steps.mdx" variables={{ "framework": "astro", "tab": "frameworks" }} />

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={6}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Create a Supabase client helper">

    Create a utility file to initialize the Supabase client:

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```ts name=src/lib/supabase.ts
      import { createClient } from "@supabase/supabase-js";

      export function createServerClient() {
        return createClient(
          import.meta.env.SUPABASE_URL,
          import.meta.env.SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY
        );
      }
      ```

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={7}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Query Supabase data from Astro">

    Create a new file at `src/pages/instruments.astro` and populate with the following.

>     This queries all the rows from the `instruments` table in Supabase and renders them on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This queries all rows from the `instruments` table in Supabase and renders them on the page.
```

I would add this as a note under the following code snippet honestly.

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```astro name=src/pages/instruments.astro
      ---
      import { createServerClient } from "../lib/supabase";

      const supabase = createServerClient();
      const { data: instruments } = await supabase.from("instruments").select();
      ---

      <html>
        <head>
          <title>Instruments</title>
        </head>
        <body>
          <ul>
            {instruments?.map((instrument) => (
              <li>{instrument.name}</li>
            ))}
          </ul>
        </body>
      </html>
      ```

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={8}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Start the app">

>     Run the development server, go to http://localhost:4321/instruments in a browser and you should see the list of instruments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run the development server, go to http://localhost:4321/instruments in your browser of choice to check the list of instruments.
```

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={5}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Declare Supabase Environment Variables">

    Create a `.env.local` file and populate with your Supabase connection variables:

    <ProjectConfigVariables variable="url" />
    <ProjectConfigVariables variable="publishable" />
    <ProjectConfigVariables variable="anon" />

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      <$CodeTabs>

        ```text name=.env.local
        PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=<SUBSTITUTE_SUPABASE_URL>
        PUBLIC_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=<SUBSTITUTE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY>
        ```

      </$CodeTabs>

      <$Partial path="api_settings_steps.mdx" variables={{ "framework": "astro", "tab": "frameworks" }} />

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={6}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Create a Supabase client helper">

    Create a utility file to initialize the Supabase client:

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```ts name=src/lib/supabase.ts
      import { createClient } from "@supabase/supabase-js";

      const supabaseUrl = import.meta.env.PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL

>       const supabasePublishableKey = import.meta.env.PUBLIC_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      const supabasePublishableKey = import.meta.env.PUBLIC_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY
```

    Create a new file at `src/pages/instruments.astro` and populate with the following.

    This queries all rows from the `instruments` table in Supabase and renders them on the page.

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```astro name=src/pages/instruments.astro
      ---
      import { createServerClient } from "../lib/supabase";

      const supabase = createServerClient();
      const { data: instruments } = await supabase.from("instruments").select();
      ---

      <html>
        <head>
          <title>Instruments</title>
        </head>
        <body>
          <ul>
            {instruments?.map((instrument) => (
              <li>{instrument.name}</li>
            ))}
          </ul>
        </body>
      </html>
      ```

    </StepHikeCompact.Code>

  </StepHikeCompact.Step>

  <StepHikeCompact.Step step={8}>
    <StepHikeCompact.Details title="Start the app">

    Run the development server, go to http://localhost:4321/instruments in your browser of choice to check the list of instruments.

    </StepHikeCompact.Details>

    <StepHikeCompact.Code>

      ```bash name=Terminal

>       npm run dev

Reviewer 2: Hmm, on /instruments, I get a blank page

Author: did you populate the table in supabase?

```
-- Create the table
create table instruments (
  id bigint primary key generated always as identity,
  name text not null
);
-- Insert some sample data into the table
insert into instruments (name)
values
  ('violin'),
  ('viola'),
  ('cello');
alter table instruments enable row level security;
```

Author: the classic works on my computer 😂

<img width="625" height="181" alt="Screenshot 2026-04-14 at 18 50 26" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7fe0f74-1ced-48cb-a34f-b76a1f2f19a6" />

Reviewer 2: @FatumaA Yup, did a `console.log` and it's `null`
